# AlliesGraph
This is my Capstone Project for the UC San Diego Object Oriented Java Programming: Data Structures and Beyond Specialization. It was (is...) a five course sequence in Java, data structures, algorithms, etc.
For this project, involving graph stuctures, we were given a great deal of individual freedom to determine our topics. I took data from the Correlates of War Project, which tracks military disputes between nations, states, political entities. My theory is that by graphing allied relationships (states on the same side of a particular dispute) I should be able to discover new relationships between states. I started by finding the "ego net" of each state in the data. That is all the states that each individual state has had an allied relationship, and any of those states' allied connections as well. My theory is that the largest ego nets would be the nations recognized as world powers. This proved itself to be close enough to true. Though the top 25 or so states by ego net size were not necessarily major powers today, they do include the largest world powers, and the rest of the states are historically active colonizers. Which suggests long-lasting, close ties to former colonial states.
The next step I am working on is taking each of those ego nets, removing the "ego" from the middle, and rating the remaining graph, somehow, on it's overall 'connectedness'. Theoretically, a highly connected graph, that does not rely soley on the presence of the state which was used to create the graph, represents strong ideological relationships. Allies who are related because they hold similar ideals and values. A loosely connected, or greatly disconnected, graph, without the origin state, would represent weak relationships. Perhaps the origin state is a bit of a bully, forcing others to ally with them. Or it is a state with less strongly held values, allying with whomever they feel will best serve immediate needs.
I am exploring algorithms to measure connectedness right now.
